\package{cleveref}

# Articles of Association of London Hackspace Ltd.

1) The company's name is London Hackspace Ltd. (and in this document it is called the "charity").

2) In the articles:
    * "address" means a postal address or, for the purposes of electronic communication, a fax number, an e-mail or postal address or a telephone number for receiving text messages in each case registered with the charity;
    * "the articles" means the charity’s articles of association;
    * "the charity" means the company intended to be regulated by the articles;
    * "clear days" in relation to the period of a notice means a period excluding:
        - the day when the notice is given or deemed to be given; and
        - the day for which it is given or on which it is to take effect;
    * "the Commission" means the Charity Commission for England and Wales;
    * "Companies Acts" means the Companies Acts (as defined in section 2 of the Companies Act 2006) insofar as they apply to the charity;
    * "the directors" means the directors of the charity. The directors are charity trustees as defined by section 97 of the Charities Act 1993;
    * "document" includes, unless otherwise specified, any document sent or supplied in electronic form;
    * "electronic form" has the meaning given in section 1168 of theCompanies Act 2006;
    * "the memorandum" means the charity’s memorandum of association;
    * "officers" includes the directors and the secretary (if any);
    * "the seal" means the common seal of the charity if it has one;
    * "secretary" means any person appointed to perform the duties of the secretary of the charity;
    * "the United Kingdom" means Great Britain and Northern Ireland; and
    * words importing one gender shall include all genders, and the singular includes the plural and vice versa.

    Unless the context otherwise requires words or expressions contained in the articles have the same meaning as in the Companies Acts but
    excluding any statutory modification not in force when this constitution becomes binding on the charity.

    Apart from the exception mentioned in the previous paragraph a reference to an Act of Parliament includes any statutory modification or
    re-enactment of it for the time being in force.

3) The liability of the members is limited to a sum not exceeding £1, being the amount that each member undertakes to contribute to the assets of the charity in the event of its being wound up while he, she or it is a member or within one year after he, she or it ceases to be a member, for:
    1. payment of the charity’s debts and liabilities incurred before he, she or it ceases to be a member;
    2. payment of the costs, charges and expenses of winding up; and
    3. adjustment of the rights of the contributories among themselves.

4) The charity’s objects ("Objects") are specifically restricted to the following:
    TODO

5) The charity has power to do anything which is calculated to further its Objects or is conducive or incidental to doing so. In particular, the
    charity has power:
    1.  to raise funds. In doing so, the charity must not undertake any taxable permanent trading activity and must comply with any relevant statutory regulations;
    2. to buy, take on lease or in exchange, hire or otherwise acquire any property and to maintain and equip it for use;
    3.  to sell, lease or otherwise dispose of all or any part of the property belonging to the charity. In exercising this power, the charity must comply as appropriate with sections 36 and 37 of the Charities Act 1993, as amended by the Charities Act 2006;
    4.  to borrow money and to charge the whole or any part of the property belonging to the charity as security for repayment of the money borrowed or as security for a grant or the discharge of an obligation. The charity must comply as appropriate with sections 38 and 39 of the Charities Act 1993, as amended by the Charities Act 2006, if it wishes to mortgage land;
    5.  to co-operate with other charities, voluntary bodies and statutory authorities and to exchange information and advice with them;
    6.  to establish or support any charitable trusts, associations or institutions formed for any of the charitable purposes included in the Objects;
    7.  to acquire, merge with or to enter into any partnership or joint venture arrangement with any other charity;
    8.  to set aside income as a reserve against future expenditure but only in accordance with a written policy about reserves;
    9.  to employ and remunerate such staff as are necessary for carrying out the work of the charity. The charity may employ or remunerate a director only to the extent it is permitted to do so by article 6 and provided it complies with the conditions in that article;
    10.     to:
        a.  deposit or invest funds;
        b.  employ a professional fund-manager; and
        c.  arrange for the investments or other property of the charity to be held in the name of a nominee;
       in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as the trustees of a trust are permitted to do by the Trustee Act 2000;
    11. to provide indemnity insurance for the directors in accordance with, and subject to the conditions in, section 73F of the Charities Act 1993;
    12. to pay out of the funds of the charity the costs of forming and registering the charity both as a company and as a charity;

6) \label{cls:income-property}
    1. The income and property of the charity shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the Objects.
    2.  \label{scls:director-reimburse}
        a. A director is entitled to be reimbursed from the property of the charity or may pay out of such property
            reasonable expenses properly incurred by him or her when acting on behalf of the charity.
        b. A director may benefit from trustee indemnity insurance cover purchased at the charity’s expense in accordance
            with, and subject to the conditions in, section 73F of the Charities Act 1993.
        c.  A director may receive an indemnity from the charity in the circumstances specified in article 56.
    3.  None of the income or property of the charity may be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend bonus or
        otherwise by way of profit to any member of the charity. This does not prevent a member who is not also a director receiving:
        a.  a benefit from the charity in the capacity of a beneficiary of the charity;
        b.  reasonable and proper remuneration for any goods or services supplied to the charity.
    4. \label{scls:directors-remuneration} No director or connected person may:
        a.  buy any goods or services from the charity on terms preferential to those applicable to members of the public;
        b.  sell goods, services, or any interest in land to the charity;
        c.  be employed by, or receive any remuneration from, the charity;
        d.  receive any other financial benefit from the charity; unless:
            i.  the payment is permitted by article \ref{scls:directors-scope}; or
            ii. the directors obtain the prior written approval of the Commission and fully comply with any procedures it prescribes.
        In this article a ‘financial benefit’ means a benefit, direct or indirect, which is either money or has a monetary value.
    5. \label{scls:directors-scope}
        i. A director or connected person may receive a benefit from the charity as a beneficiary provided it is available
            generally to the beneficiaries of the charity.
        ii. A director or connected person may enter into a contract for the supply of services, or of goods that
            are supplied in connection with the provision of services, to the charity where that is permitted in
            accordance with, and subject to the conditions in section 73A to 73C of the Charities Act 1993.
        iii. Subject to article \ref{scls:supply-goods} a director or connected person may provide the charity with goods that are
            not supplied in connection with services provided to the charity by the director or connected person. \label{art:directors-goods}
        iv. A director or connected person may receive interest on money lent to the charity at a reasonablea
            and proper rate which must be 2% (or more) per annum below the base rate of a clearing bank to be
            selected by the directors.
        v. A director or connected person may receive rent for premises let by the director or connected person to
            the charity if the amount of the rent and the other terms of the lease are reasonable and proper and
            provided that the director concerned shall withdraw from any meeting at which such a proposal or the
            rent or other terms of the lease are under discussion.
        vi. The directors may arrange for the purchase, out of the funds of the charity, of insurance designed
            to indemnify the directors in accordance with the terms of, and subject to the conditions in, section
            73F of the Charities Act 1993.
    6. \label{scls:supply-goods}
        The charity and its directors may only rely upon the authority provided by article \ref{art:directors-goods} if each of the following
        conditions is satisfied:
        a. The amount or maximum amount of the payment for the goods is set out in an agreement in writing between:
            i.  the charity or its directors (as the case may be); and
            ii. the director or connected person supplying the goods ("the supplier") under which the supplier is
                to supply the goods in question to or on behalf of the charity.
        b. The amount or maximum amount of the payment for the goods does not exceed what is reasonable in the 
            circumstances for the supply of the goods in question.
        c.  The other directors are satisfied that it is in the best interests of the charity to contract with the supplier rather
            than with someone who is not a director or connected person. In reaching that decision the directors must
            balance the advantage of contracting with a director or connected person against the disadvantages of doing so.
        d.  The supplier is absent from the part of any meeting at which there is discussion of the proposal to enter into a
            contract or arrangement with him or her or it with regard to the supply of goods to the charity.
        e.  The supplier does not vote on any such matter and is not to be counted when calculating whether a quorum of
            directors is present at the meeting.
        f.  The reason for their decision is recorded by the directors in the minute book.
        g.  A majority of the directors then in office are not in receipt of remuneration or payments authorised by article \ref{scls:directors-remuneration}.
    7. In sub-clauses 2 to 6 of this article, "charity" shall include any company in which the charity:
        * holds more than 50% of the shares; or
        * controls more than 50% of the voting rights attached to the shares; or
        * has the right to appoint one or more directors to the board of the company;
    8. In sub-clauses 4 to 6 of this article 6, sub-clause (2) of article 45 and sub-clause (2) of article 46 "connected person" means:
        a. \label{art:connected-child} a child, parent, grandchild, grandparent, brother or sister of the director;
        b. \label{art:connected-spouse} the spouse or civil partner of the director or of any person falling within paragraph \ref{art:connected-child} above;
        c. \label{art:connected-business} a person carrying on business in partnership with the director or with any person falling within
                paragraph \ref{art:connected-child} or \ref{art:connected-spouse} above;
        d. an institution which is controlled –
            i. by the director or any connected person falling within paragraph \ref{art:connected-child},
                \ref{art:connected-spouse}, or \ref{art:connected-business} above; or
            ii. by two or more persons falling within sub-paragraph (I), when taken together
        v. a body corporate in which –
            I. the director or any connected person falling within paragraphs (i) to (iii) has a substantial interest; or
            II. two or more persons falling within sub-paragraph (I) who, when taken together, have a substantial interest.
    9. For the purposes of interpreting the terms used in sub-clauses 7 and 8, paragraphs 2 to 4 of Schedule 5 to the Charities Act 1993 apply.

7) \label{cls:subscribers}
    1.  The subscribers to the memorandum are the first members of the charity.
    2.  Membership is open to other individuals or organisations who:
        a. apply to the charity in the form required by the directors; and
        b. are approved by the directors.
    3. #
        a.  The directors may only refuse an application for membership if, acting reasonably and properly, they
            consider it to be in the best interests of the charity to refuse the application.
        b.  The directors must inform the applicant in writing of the reasons for the refusal within twenty-one days of the decision.
        c.  The directors must consider any written representations the applicant may make about the decision. The directors’
             decision following any written representations must be notified to the applicant in writing but shall be final.
    4. Membership is not transferable.
    5. The directors must keep a register of names and addresses of the members.

8) \label{cls:members}
    1.  The directors may establish classes of membership with different rights and obligations and shall record the rights and
        obligations in the register of members.
    2.  The directors may not directly or indirectly alter the rights or obligations attached to a class of membership.
    3.  The rights attached to a class of membership may only be varied if:
        a. three-quarters of the members of that class consent in writing to the variation; or
        b. a special resolution is passed at a separate general meeting of the members of that class agreeing to the variation.
    4.  The provisions in the articles about general meetings shall apply to any meeting relating to the variation of the rights of any class
        of members.
9)  Membership is terminated if:
    1.  the member dies or, if it is an organisation, ceases to exist;
    2.  the member resigns by written notice to the charity unless, after the resignation, there would be less than two members;
    3.  any sum due from the member to the charity is not paid in full within six months of it falling due;
    4.  the member is removed from membership by a resolution of the directors that it is in the best interests of the charity that his
        or her or its membership is terminated. A resolution to remove a member from membership may only be passed if:
        a.  the member has been given at least twenty-one days’ notice in writing of the meeting of the directors at which
            the resolution will be proposed and the reasons why it is to be proposed;
        b. the member or, at the option of the member, the member’s representative (who need not be a member of
             the charity) has been allowed to make representations to the meeting.

10)   #
    1.  The charity must hold its first annual general meeting within eighteen months after the date of its incorporation.
    2.  An annual general meeting must be held in each subsequent year and not more than fifteen months may elapse between
        successive annual general meetings.

11) The directors may call a general meeting at any time.

12) #
    1. The minimum periods of notice required to hold a general meeting of the charity are:
        a.  twenty-one clear days for an annual general meeting or a general meeting called for the passing of a special resolution;
        b.  fourteen clear days for all other general meetings.
    2.  A general meeting may be called by shorter notice if it is so agreed by a majority in number of members having a right to
            attend and vote at the meeting, being a majority who together hold not less than 90 percent of the total voting rights.
    3.  The notice must specify the date time and place of the meeting and the general nature of the business to be transacted. If the
            meeting is to be an annual general meeting, the notice must say so. The notice must also contain a statement setting out the
            right of members to appoint a proxy under section 324 of the Companies Act 2006 and article 19.
    4.  The notice must be given to all the members and to the directors and auditors.

13)   The proceedings at a meeting shall not be invalidated because a person who was entitled to receive notice of the meeting did not receive it
        because of an accidental omission by the charity.

14) #
    1. No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a quorum is present.
    2. A quorum is:
        a.  [ ] members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote upon the business to be conducted at the meeting; or
        b.  one tenth of the total membership at the time
    3.  The authorised representative of a member organisation shall be counted in the quorum.


15) #
    1. If :
        a. a quorum is not present within half an hour from the time appointed for the meeting; or
        b. during a meeting a quorum ceases to be present;
       the meeting shall be adjourned to such time and place as the directors shall determine.
    2. The directors must reconvene the meeting and must give at least seven clear days’ notice of the 
        reconvened meeting stating the date, time and place of the meeting.
    3. If no quorum is present at the reconvened meeting within fifteen minutes of the time specified for
        the start of the meeting the members present in person or by proxy at that time shall constitute
        the quorum for that meeting.

16) #
    1. General meetings shall be chaired by the person who has been appointed to chair meetings of the directors.
    2. If there is no such person or he or she is not present within fifteen minutes of the time appointed for the
        meeting a director nominated by the directors shall chair the meeting.
    3. If there is only one director present and willing to act, he or she shall chair the meeting.
    4. If no director is present and willing to chair the meeting within fifteen minutes after the time appointed for
        holding it, the members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote must choose one of their number to
        chair the meeting.

17) #
    1. The members present in person or by proxy at a meeting may resolve by ordinary resolution that the meeting 
        shall be adjourned.
    2. The person who is chairing the meeting must decide the date, time and place at which the meeting is to be
        reconvened unless those details are specified in the resolution.
    3. No business shall be conducted at a reconvened meeting unless it could properly have been conducted at the
        meeting had the adjournment not taken place.
    4. If a meeting is adjourned by a resolution of the members for more than seven days, at least seven clear
        days’ notice shall be given of the reconvened meeting stating the date, time and place of the meeting.

18) #
    1. Any vote at a meeting shall be decided by a show of hands unless before, or on the declaration of the result 
        of, the show of hands a poll is demanded:
        a. by the person chairing the meeting; or
        b. by at least two members present in person or by proxy and having the right to vote at the meeting; or
        c. by a member or members present in person or by proxy representing not less than one-tenth of the
            total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting.
    2. #
        a. The declaration by the person who is chairing the meeting of the result of a vote shall be conclusive
            unless a poll is demanded.
        b. The result of the vote must be recorded in the minutes of the charity but the number or proportion of
            votes cast need not be recorded.
    3. #
        a. A demand for a poll may be withdrawn, before the poll is taken, but only with the consent of the person
            who is chairing the meeting.
        b. If the demand for a poll is withdrawn the demand shall not invalidate the result of a show of hands declared
            before the demand was made.
    4. #
        a. A poll must be taken as the person who is chairing the meeting directs, who may appoint scrutineers (who need
            not be members) and who may fix a time and place for declaring the results of the poll.
        b. The result of the poll shall be deemed to be the resolution of the meeting at which the poll is demanded.
    5. #
        a. A poll demanded on the election of a person to chair a meeting or on a question of adjournment must be taken immediately.
        b. A poll demanded on any other question must be taken either immediately or at such time and place as the 
            person who is chairing the meeting directs.
        c. The poll must be taken within thirty days after it has been demanded.
        d. If the poll is not taken immediately at least seven clear days’ notice shall be given specifying the time and 
            place at which the poll is to be taken.
        e. If a poll is demanded the meeting may continue to deal with any other business that may be conducted at the meeting.

19) #
    1. Proxies may only validly be appointed by a notice in writing (a “proxy notice”) which -
        a. states the name and address of the member appointing the proxy;
        b. identifies the person appointed to be that member’s proxy and the general meeting in relation
            to which that person is appointed;
        c. is signed by or on behalf of the member appointing the proxy, or is authenticated in such manner as the
            directors may determine; and
        d. is delivered to the charity in accordance with the articles and any instructions contained in the notice
            of the general meeting to which they relate.
    2. The charity may require proxy notices to be delivered in a particular form, and may specify different forms for
        different purposes.
    3. Proxy notices may specify how the proxy appointed under them is to vote (or that the proxy is to abstain from
        voting) on one or more resolutions.
    4. Unless a proxy notice indicates otherwise, it must be treated as -
        a. allowing the person appointed under it as a proxy discretion as to how to vote on any ancillary or 
            procedural resolutions put to the meeting; and
        b. appointing that person as a proxy in relation to any adjournment of the general meeting to which it
            relates as well as the meeting itself.

19A) #
    1. A person who is entitled to attend, speak or vote (either on a show of hands or on a poll) at a general meeting
        remains so entitled in respect of that meeting or any adjournment of it, even though a valid proxy notice has
        been delivered to the charity by or on behalf of that person.
    2. An appointment under a proxy notice may be revoked by delivering to the charity a notice in writing given by
        or on behalf of the person by whom or on whose behalf the proxy notice was given.
    3. A notice revoking a proxy appointment only takes effect if it is delivered before the start of the meeting or
        adjourned meeting to which it relates
    4. If a proxy notice is not executed by the person appointing the proxy, it must be accompanied by written
        evidence of the authority of the person who executed it to execute it on the appointor’s behalf.

20) #
    1. A resolution in writing agreed by a simple majority (or in the case of a special resolution by a majority of
        not less than 75%) of the members who would have been entitled to vote upon it had it been proposed at a
        general meeting shall be effective provided that:
        a. a copy of the proposed resolution has been sent to every eligible member;
        b. a simple majority (or in the case of a special resolution a majority of not less than 75%) of members
            has signified its agreement to the resolution; and
        c. it is contained in an authenticated document which has been received at the registered office within the
            period of 28 days beginning with the circulation date.
    2. A resolution in writing may comprise several copies to which one or more members have signified their agreement.
    3. In the case of a member that is an organisation, its authorised representative may signify its agreement.

21) Subject to article 8, every member, whether an individual or an organisation, shall have one vote.

22) Any objection to the qualification of any voter must be raised at the meeting at which the vote is tendered
        and the decision of the person who is chairing the meeting shall be final.

23) #
    1. Any organisation that is a member of the charity may nominate any person to act as its
        representative at any meeting of the charity.
    2. The organisation must give written notice to the charity of the name of its representative.
        The representative shall not be entitled to represent the organisation at any meeting unless
        the notice has been received by the charity. The representative may continue to represent the
        organisation until written notice to the contrary is received by the charity.
    3. Any notice given to the charity will be conclusive evidence that the representative is entitled
        to represent the organisation or that his or her authority has been revoked. The charity shall
        not be required to consider whether the representative has been properly appointed by the organisation.

24) #
    1. A director must be a natural person aged 16 years or older.
    2. No one may be appointed a director if he or she would be disqualified from acting under the provisions of article 36.

25) The number of directors shall be not less than three but (unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution) 
    shall not be subject to any maximum.

26) The first directors shall be those persons notified to Companies House as the first directors of the charity.

27) A director may not appoint an alternate director or anyone to act on his or her behalf at meetings of the directors.

28) #
    1. The directors shall manage the business of the charity and may exercise all the powers of the charity unless
        they are subject to any restrictions imposed by the Companies Acts, the articles or any special resolution.
    2. No alteration of the articles or any special resolution shall have retrospective effect to invalidate any 
        prior act of the directors.
    3. Any meeting of directors at which a quorum is present at the time the relevant decision is made may exercise
        all the powers exercisable by the directors.

30) #
    1. The directors to retire by rotation shall be those who have been longest in office since their last appointment. 
        If any directors became or were appointed directors on the same day those to retire shall (unless they 
        otherwise agree among themselves) be determined by lot.
    2. If a director is required to retire at an annual general meeting by a provision of the articles the retirement 
        shall take effect upon the conclusion of the meeting.

31) The charity may by ordinary resolution:
    1. appoint a person who is willing to act to be a director; and
    2. determine the rotation in which any additional directors are to retire.

32) No person other than a director retiring by rotation may be appointed a director at any general meeting unless:
    1. he or she is recommended for re-election by the directors; or
    2. not less than fourteen nor more than thirty-five clear days before the date of the meeting, the charity is 
        given a notice that:
        a. is signed by a member entitled to vote at the meeting;
        b. states the member’s intention to propose the appointment of a person as a director;
        c. contains the details that, if the person were to be appointed, the charity would have to file at Companies House; and
        d. is signed by the person who is to be proposed to show his or her willingness to be appointed.

33) All members who are entitled to receive notice of a general meeting must be given not less than seven nor
    more than twenty-eight clear days’ notice of any resolution to be put to the meeting to appoint a director
    other than a director who is to retire by rotation.

34) #
    1. The directors may appoint a person who is willing to act to be a director.
    2. A director appointed by a resolution of the other directors must retire at the next annual general
        meeting and must not be taken into account in determining the directors who are to retire by rotation.

35) The appointment of a director, whether by the charity in general meeting or by the other directors,
    must not cause the number of directors to exceed any number fixed as the maximum number of directors.

36)
    1. ceases to be a director by virtue of any provision in the Companies Acts or is prohibited by law from being a director;
    2. is disqualified from acting as a trustee by virtue of section 72 of the Charities Act 1993 (or any statutory 
        re-enactment or modification of that provision);
    3. ceases to be a member of the charity;
    4. becomes incapable by reason of mental disorder, illness or injury of managing and administering his or her own affairs;
    5. resigns as a director by notice to the charity (but only if at least two directors will remain in office when the
        notice of resignation is to take effect); or
    6. is absent without the permission of the directors from all their meetings held within a period of six
        consecutive months and the directors resolve that his or her office be vacated.

37) The directors must not be paid any remuneration unless it is authorised by article 6.

38) #
    1. The directors may regulate their proceedings as they think fit, subject to the provisions of the articles.
    2. Any director may call a meeting of the directors.
    3. The secretary (if any) must call a meeting of the directors if requested to do so by a director.
    4. Questions arising at a meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes.
    5. In the case of an equality of votes, the person who is chairing the meeting shall have a second or casting vote.
    6. A meeting may be held by suitable electronic means agreed by the directors in which each participant may 
        communicate with all the other participants.

39) #
    1. No decision may be made by a meeting of the directors unless a quorum is present at the time the decision
        is purported to be made. ‘Present’ includes being present by suitable electronic means agreed by the
        directors in which a participant or participants may communicate with all the other participants.
    2. The quorum shall be two or the number nearest to one-third of the total number of directors, whichever is
        the greater, or such larger number as may be decided from time to time by the directors.
    3. A director shall not be counted in the quorum present when any decision is made about a matter upon
        which that director is not entitled to vote.

40) If the number of directors is less than the number fixed as the quorum, the continuing directors or director
        may act only for the purpose of filling vacancies or of calling a general meeting.

41) #
    1. The directors shall appoint a director to chair their meetings and may at any time revoke such appointment.
    2. If no-one has been appointed to chair meetings of the directors or if the person appointed is unwilling to
        preside or is not present within ten minutes after the time appointed for the meeting, the directors
        present may appoint one of their number to chair that meeting.
    3. The person appointed to chair meetings of the directors shall have no functions or powers except those
        conferred by the articles or delegated to him or her by the directors.

42) #
    1. A resolution in writing or in electronic form agreed by all of the directors entitled to receive notice of
        a meeting of the directors and to vote upon the resolution shall be as valid and effectual as if it had
        been passed at a meeting of the directors duly convened and held.
    2. The resolution in writing may comprise several documents containing the text of the resolution in like
        form to each of which one or more directors has signified their agreement.

43) #
    1. The directors may delegate any of their powers or functions to a committee of two or more directors but
        the terms of any delegation must be recorded in the minute book.
    2. The directors may impose conditions when delegating, including the conditions that:
        a. the relevant powers are to be exercised exclusively by the committee to whom they delegate;
        b. no expenditure may be incurred on behalf of the charity except in accordance with a budget previously
            agreed with the directors.
    3. The directors may revoke or alter a delegation.
    4. All acts and proceedings of any committees must be fully and promptly reported to the directors.

44) A director must declare the nature and extent of any interest, direct or indirect, which he or she has in a
    proposed transaction or arrangement with the charity or in any transaction or arrangement entered into by the
    charity which has not previously been declared. A director must absent himself or herself from any discussions
    of the directors in which it is possible that a conflict will arise between his or her duty to act solely in the
    interests of the charity and any personal interest (including but not limited to any personal financial interest).

45) #
    1. If a conflict of interests arises for a director because of a duty of loyalty owed to another organisation or
        person and the conflict is not authorised by virtue of any other provision in the articles, the unconflicted
        directors may authorise such a conflict of interests where the following conditions apply:
        a. the conflicted director is absent from the part of the meeting at which there is discussion of any arrangement
            or transaction affecting that other organisation or person;
        b. the conflicted director does not vote on any such matter and is not to be counted when considering whether a
            quorum of directors is present at the meeting; and
        c. the unconflicted directors consider it is in the interests of the charity to authorise the conflict of
            interests in the circumstances applying.
    2. In this article a conflict of interests arising because of a duty of loyalty owed to another organisation or
        person only refers to such a conflict which does not involve a direct or indirect benefit of any nature to a
        director or to a connected person.

46) #
    1. Subject to article 46(2), all acts done by a meeting of directors, or of a committee of directors,
        shall be valid notwithstanding the participation in any vote of a director:
        a. who was disqualified from holding office;
        b. who had previously retired or who had been obliged by the constitution to vacate office;
        c. who was not entitled to vote on the matter, whether by reason of a conflict of interests or otherwise;
        if without:
        d. the vote of that director; and
        e. that director being counted in the quorum;
        the decision has been made by a majority of the directors at a quorate meeting.
    2. Article 46(1) does not permit a director or a connected person to keep any benefit that may be conferred upon
        him or her by a resolution of the directors or of a committee of directors if, but for article 46(1), the
        resolution would have been void, or if the director has not complied with article 44.

47) If the charity has a seal it must only be used by the authority of the directors or of a committee of directors authorised by the directors. The directors may determine who shall sign any instrument to which the seal is affixed and unless otherwise so determined it shall be signed by a director and by the secretary (if any) or by a second director.

48) The directors must keep minutes of all:
    1. appointments of officers made by the directors;
    2. proceedings at meetings of the charity;
    3. meetings of the directors and committees of directors including:
        a. the names of the directors present at the meeting;
        b. the decisions made at the meetings; and
        c. where appropriate the reasons for the decisions.

49) #
    1. The directors must prepare for each financial year accounts as required by the Companies Acts.
        The accounts must be prepared to show a true and fair view and follow accounting standards
        issued or adopted by the Accounting Standards Board or its successors and adhere to the
        recommendations of applicable Statements of Recommended Practice.
    2. The directors must keep accounting records as required by the Companies Acts.

50) #
    1. The directors must comply with the requirements of the Charities Act 1993 with regard to the:
        a. transmission of a copy of the statements of account to the Commission;
        b. preparation of an Annual Report and the transmission of a copy of it to the Commission;
        c. preparation of an Annual Return and its transmission to the Commission.
    2. The directors must notify the Commission promptly of any changes to the charity’s entry on the Central Register of Charities.

51) #
    1. Subject to the articles, anything sent or supplied by or to the charity under the articles may
        be sent or supplied in any way in which the Companies Act 2006 provides for documents or information
        which are authorised or required by any provision of that Act to be sent or supplied by or to the charity.
    2. Subject to the articles, any notice or document to be sent or supplied to a director in connection with
        the taking of decisions by directors may also be sent or supplied by the means by which that director
        has asked to be sent or supplied with such notices or documents for the time being.

52) Any notice to be given to or by any person pursuant to the articles:
    1. must be in writing; or
    2. must be given in electronic form.

53) #
    1. The charity may give any notice to a member either:
        a. personally; or
        b. by sending it by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to the member at his or her address; or
        c. by leaving it at the address of the member; or
        d. by giving it in electronic form to the member’s address.
        e. by placing the notice on a website and providing the person with a notification in writing or
            in electronic form of the presence of the notice on the website. The notification must state
            that it concerns a notice of a company meeting and must specify the place date and time of
            the meeting.
    2. A member who does not register an address with the charity or who registers only a postal address
        that is not within the United Kingdom shall not be entitled to receive any notice from the charity.

54) A member present in person at any meeting of the charity shall be deemed to have received notice of the
    meeting and of the purposes for which it was called.

55) #
    1. Proof that an envelope containing a notice was properly addressed, prepaid and posted shall be
        conclusive evidence that the notice was given.
    2. Proof that an electronic form of notice was given shall be conclusive where the company can
        demonstrate that it was properly addressed and sent, in accordance with section 1147 of the Companies Act 2006.
    3. In accordance with section 1147 of the Companies Act 2006, notice shall be deemed to be given:
        a. 48 hours after the envelope containing it was posted; or
        b. in the case of an electronic form of communication, 48 hours after it was sent.

56) #
    1. (TODO) The charity shall indemnify any director against any liability incurred by him or her or it in that capacity, to the extent permitted by sections 232 to 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
    2. In this article a “relevant director” means any director or former director of the charity.

57) #
    1. The directors may from time to time make such reasonable and proper rules or bye laws as they may
        deem necessary or expedient for the proper conduct and management of the charity.
    2. The bye laws may regulate the following matters but are not restricted to them:
        a. the admission of members of the charity (including the admission of organisations to membership)
            and the rights and privileges of such members, and the entrance fees, subscriptions and other
            fees or payments to be made by members;
        b. the conduct of members of the charity in relation to one another, and to the charity’s employees
            and volunteers;
        c. the setting aside of the whole or any part or parts of the charity’s premises at any particular time
            or times or for any particular purpose or purposes;
        d. the procedure at general meetings and meetings of the directors in so far as such procedure is not
            regulated by the Companies Acts or by the articles;
        e. generally, all such matters as are commonly the subject matter of company rules.
    3. The charity in general meeting has the power to alter, add to or repeal the rules or bye laws.
    4. The directors must adopt such means as they think sufficient to bring the rules and bye laws
        to the notice of members of the charity.
    5. The rules or bye laws shall be binding on all members of the charity. No rule or bye law shall
        be inconsistent with, or shall affect or repeal anything contained in, the articles.

58) #
    1. The members of the charity may at any time before, and in expectation of, its dissolution resolve
        that any net assets of the charity after all its debts and liabilities have been paid, or provision
        has been made for them, shall on or before the dissolution of the charity be applied or transferred
        in any of the following ways:
        a. directly for the Objects; or
        b. by transfer to any charity or charities for purposes similar to the Objects; or
        c. to any charity or charities for use for particular purposes that fall within the Objects.
    2. Subject to any such resolution of the members of the charity, the directors of the charity may at any
        time before and in expectation of its dissolution resolve that any net assets of the charity after all
        its debts and liabilities have been paid, or provision made for them, shall on or before dissolution
        of the charity be applied or transferred:
        a. directly for the Objects; or
        b. by transfer to any charity or charities for purposes similar to the Objects; or
        c. to any charity or charities for use for particular purposes that fall within the Objects.
    3. In no circumstances shall the net assets of the charity be paid to or distributed among the members of
        the charity (except to a member that is itself a charity) and if no resolution in accordance with
        article 58(1) is passed by the members or the directors the net assets of the charity shall be applied
        for charitable purposes as directed by the Court or the Commission.
