# London Hackspace: Rules on Conduct of Elections
## Validity
*Important Note:* This document is a provisional, non-binding, work in
progress during the 2016 election, with the intent of being final for
the 2017 election.

## Introduction
Trustee elections are carried out yearly in accordance with article 25
of the [articles of
association](https://london.hackspace.org.uk/organisation/docs/articles.pdf).
This policy sets out the rules for these elections, as set out by the
Board in accordance with Article 49(a).

For the purposes of these rules, "election period" means the period of
time from when the nomination period is announced until the conclusion
of the election, whether it has met quorum or not.

## General

The trustees should designate a Returning Officer (who may not be a
trustee) to oversee the election process. The Returning Officer must not be
a candidate in the election, and must remain impartial.

These rules must not be altered by the Board once the election period has
commenced. During the election period, the Returning Officer has the sole
responsibility to interpret these rules, and to make decisions if events
arise which are not covered by them.

The Returning Officer's responsibilities terminate at the conclusion of the
election period.

## Timeline

1. Agree rotation order and board size (1 week)
2. Announcement of nomination period
3. Nominations (2 weeks)
4. Start of election
5. Election (2 weeks)
6. Declaration of Results

### 1. Rotation order and board size
At this stage, the Board must decide which trustees are retiring by
rotation in accordance with Article 26(b). The longest-serving third of
the current size of the Board (rounded to the nearest whole number) must
retire by rotation.

If there is a tie when determining the longest-serving third of the
Board, this should be resolved either by agreement among those
trustees, or otherwise by random lot administered by the Returning
Officer.

Other trustees may also retire at the election, however these cannot
count against the number required to retire by rotation.

### 2. Announcement of nomination period
An email should be sent both to the main mailing list, and also to all
members of the organisation individually, announcing the opening of
nominations.

This email must contain the names of trustees retiring by rotation, and
whether they are standing for re-election.

Example text of this email can be found below.

### 3. Nomination Period
During the nomination period, successful nominations should be
periodically added to the wiki so the membership is aware of who is
currently nominated.

Lack of a bio or photo does not invalidate a candidate's nomination.

### 4. Start of Election
The Returning officer should now commence the election using
[OpaVote](https://www.opavote.com). Payment will need to be made by
credit card.

The list of members allowed to vote in the election shall be every
member of the organisation on the day the election starts.

The OpaVote contest should be configured to elect the number of spaces
up for election using the Meek STV method.

The candidate "NO FURTHER PLACES" should be added to the list of
candidates.

The election should use the "ranked simple" ordering method. This avoids
further confusion generated by the "No Further Places" candidate.

Under the Articles, the election must run for at least two weeks. It is
recommended to allow it to run several hours beyond the minimum period.

It is also recommended to configure OpaVote not to show the election
results automatically on conclusion of the election.

### 5. Election
During the election, the Returning Officer should monitor email
responses to the elections email alias.

The principle of "one member one vote" must be strongly adhered to.
If a member is unable to vote due to a change of email address, their
new email address must only be added to the election if the previous
email address is shown to be bouncing by OpaVote.

At least three reminders must be sent to those members who have not
yet voted at evenly-spaced intervals during the election.

### 6. Declaration of Results
At the conclusion of the election, the Returning Officer should check
the results and send an announcement email to the main mailing list,
then make the OpaVote results public.

If the "No Further Places" candidate is elected, that position (as well
as any elected after it) should be left unfilled.

The secretary, or a member of the Board, must then promptly make the
statutory notifications necessary to add the elected candidates as
directors of the association.

If the election has not reached quorum, it will be the Board's decision
to decide what action to take.

If, during the election, a candidate withdraws by notice to the
Returning Officer, becomes banned from London Hackspace during the
election, or ceases to be a member, that candidate should be treated as
withdrawn for the purposes of the election. In effect this results in
the results being calculated as if that candidate never participated.

## Appendix: Model Texts
This appendix contains model texts for conducting the election, and does
not form a binding part of these rules.

### Nominations Announcement
Subject: Trustees Elections: Nominations now open

We are now accepting nominations for the <year> London Hackspace trustee
elections. If you wish to stand, please read this message in full.

Trustees are elected by the whole membership using a ranked secret ballot.
You can read more about the duties of trustees here:

  http://wiki.london.hackspace.org.uk/view/Trustees

We'd like to see as many members as possible applying to be a trustee.
Applications from women and minorities are especially encouraged.

<number> existing trustees are required to retire by rotation under Article
26(b). The trustees who will be retiring are <list trustees retiring>.
There will be three trustee positions elected this year, [increasing the
size of the board by <number of seats>].

If you would like to put your name forward, please do the following:

 1) Email elections@london.hackspace.org.uk from your membership email
address, with your full name. With your application, please supply a
brief (no more than 250 word) statement about your suitability to be a
trustee and a photo so that members can recognise you.
 2) Ask another member to second you. They should email
elections@london.hackspace.org.uk from their membership email address
with your name, stating that they're seconding you for election.

Nominations close at <time and full date>. The election will
start later that day and will last for two weeks.

### OpaVote Description
This election is to elect three trustees to the board of London Hackspace.
The election is run using a ranked voting system, and will end at
<full time and date>.

Please take some time to vote in this election - it is a core part of your
responsibility as a member of London Hackspace, and this election will only
be valid if at least 10 per cent of members vote. To learn more about the
candidates, view the list of candidates:

<link to candidates list>

### OpaVote Contest Description
Please rank all the candidates below in the order of your preference. If
you feel that a candidate should not be elected, rank "NO FURTHER
PLACES" above them.
